# Python_for_Informatics

Python Specialization Certificate through the University of Michigan via Coursera. The following courses are included in the specialization:

# [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/python)
# <li> Capstone: Retrieving, Processing, and Visualizing Data with Python </li>
In the capstone, students will build a series of applications to retrieve, process and visualize data using Python.   The projects will involve all the elements of the specialization.  In the first part of the capstone, students will do some visualizations to become familiar with the technologies in use and then will pursue their own project to visualize some other data that they have or can find. Chapter 15 from the book “Python for Informatics” will serve as the backbone for the capstone.
# <li> Using Databases with Python </li>
This course will introduce students to the basics of the Structured Query Language (SQL) as well as basic database design for storing data as part of a multi-step data gathering, analysis, and processing effort.  The course will use SQLite3 as its database.  We will also build web crawlers and multi-step data gathering and visualization processes.  We will use the D3.js library to do basic data visualization.  This course will cover Chapters 14-15 of the book “Python for Informatics”. To succeed in this course, you should be familiar with the material covered in Chapters 1-13 of the textbook and the first three courses in this specialization.
# <li> Using Python to Access Web Data </li>
This course will show how one can treat the Internet as a source of data.  We will scrape, parse, and read web data as well as access data using web APIs.  We will work with HTML, XML, and JSON data formats in Python.  This course will cover Chapters 11-13 of the textbook “Python for Informatics”. To succeed in this course, you should be familiar with the material covered in Chapters 1-10 of the textbook and the first two courses in this specialization.  These topics include variables and expressions, conditional execution (loops, branching, and try/except), functions, Python data structures (strings, lists, dictionaries, and tuples), and manipulating files.
# <li> [Python Data Structures](https://github.com/OrysyaStus/Python_for_Informatics/tree/master/Python_Data_Structures) </li>
This course will introduce the core data structures of the Python programming language. We will move past the basics of procedural programming and explore how we can use the Python built-in data structures such as lists, dictionaries, and tuples to perform increasingly complex data analysis. This course will cover Chapters 6-10 of the textbook “Python for Informatics”.  This course is equivalent to the second half of the 11-week "Programming for Everybody (Python)" course.
# <li> [Programming for Everybody](https://github.com/OrysyaStus/Python_for_Informatics/tree/master/Programming_for_Everybody) </li>
This course aims to teach everyone the basics of programming computers using Python. We cover the basics of how one constructs a program from a series of simple instructions in Python.  The course has no pre-requisites and avoids all but the simplest mathematics. Anyone with moderate computer experience should be able to master the materials in this course. This course will cover Chapters 1-5 of the textbook “Python for Informatics”.   This course is equivalent to the first half of the 11-week "Programming for Everybody (Python)" course.  Once a student completes this course, they will be ready to take more advanced programming courses.
